The Joe Rogan experience. Yeah. It's also when someone,
when someone has a S a continuous message, it's always the same.
And it's always positive. It makes me really suspect.
Cause I'm like this self-help guy on the Metallica documentary who was offering
the lyrics. That's the best movie ever made, probably about music.
It's like it beats spinal tap. It's like, if there was a competition,
I have to come down on some kind of monster. It made me actually like the,
I mean, it made me as a fan, appreciate those guys in a weird way.
Their dysfunction,
like they became characters one time. I'll watch the movie and be like,
oh man, like Lars is so annoying, then I'll watch it again. Like,
like I'll still think Lars is annoying, but like, I still think he's right.
Or I have a different view every time I watch it. But ultimately I do. I am.
I just, I ended up liking those guys because of it more.
He stepped out in a big way with that Napster thing. It was,
it was an odd moment for everyone because everyone was trying to figure out what
is this file sharing thing. How's it going to fit?
And then the music business you guys felt at first,
like you guys were the big hit more than anything,
because it's not the same to watch a movie on your TV.
Even if you can download the illegal movie,
I'm sure it'll have a little bit of a hit,
but people want to go to the movie theater, but with your, they can,
once it starts, people start sharing things, you get just, you just get a file.
And everybody kind of just assumed that. Well, I mean,
this is like this new frontier and it's not really stealing.
You're just copying. It's just, you're not giving them money for it,
but you're not really stealing.
Get this weird sort of enlarge was the first guy to say, Hey,
you you're stealing like this. But it was a weird fight to have because it's,
you know, hindsight is always 2020.
We know what the internet has become since then.
It's incredibly difficult to try to keep a wrap on things and to keep things,
uh, to keep someone from downloading things like they just get there.
So if you have songs, they get out there. You know,
whereas that Napster thing was the first time this was happening.
And he was the guy who is as a really,
really wealthy guy who was a huge success saying,
don't do this. Like this is stealing.
Well, yeah. It's like David versus Goliath type of thing. I mean,
clearly people shouldn't steal, but
is it Metallica's job to tell people that maybe, but maybe he,
maybe they should have gone directly to Napster or to their record label.
But I, you know, when streaming first started becoming like a real thing,
we had to talk with a friend of ours who basically encouraged us to look at it
and not do it.
And I went into with our manager went when I'm talking to someone at Warner
brothers and said, we didn't want to do it. And they were like,
kind of outraged. And like, you can't not do it. You can't not do. And, um,
I didn't really know at the time,
but I found out a couple of months later that they, they,
I found out a couple of months later because I, I,
I w I was quoted in rolling stone talking about like Sean Parker and Spotify.
And it,
what happened is I ended up getting a phone call or an email from di from
Daniel, the owner of Spotify.
And we had lunch together and he's cool guy. He's a nice, nice guy,
very intelligent. And I, and I really saw his side of it for the first time.
And he basically, without explaining it directly was like,
you know, that he's paying our label to get our music,
what they do with the money he can't control.
He's not really like that at that moment, I realized, oh yeah,
there's some stock being floated to these companies,
which there was billions of dollars of stock was sent in.
The label has no obligation to give you. They gave us, they gave us,
they gave us like a couple hundred thousand dollars of it, uh,
out of the billion because they paid it to us in the way the label does was they
paid it as an artist royalty and it took all these deductions off of it.
And it was a made up number. It's, it's,
there's a lot of money in the music industry right now that, you know,
and the problem is, is that it's like not like, okay,
so my, my favorite bands for the most part don't have hit songs.
They don't get played on K rock.
They don't have like a mock arena type on there.
That's going to be coming their way. I mean, and that,
and that's what pays money is like they,
cause they treat almost every stream the same. It's like, there's a different,
there's a royalty rate for if you pay for Spotify.
And there's a royalty rate for if you're listening on the free service,
but what they need to do in my opinion is they need to say this guy
is a Joe listens to music. He has good taste in music. He, he, he,
he follows 500 bands,
which means that there's no possible way that he's going to be listening to all
500 of those bands in a, in even a six month period of time.
But when he does choose to listen to a song,
it it's worth like X,
like 10 X versus this person.
Who's listening to old town road a thousand times a day
because Joe is like actually engaging with our thing and not just streaming the
song for free and like a monkey, like, you know, like a Pavlov,
you know, whatever mouth salivating, every time they hear the little,
little old town road, wherever I was,
I look at my Spotify thing and I'll go months. I,
and I have all I pay for all of them. I have like YouTube, apple, whatever.
I don't have title, but that's because they didn't, they,
they gave ownership to like 12 artists and they were like, you,
what the is that? Just keep the ownership and pay a higher royalty.
You cocksuckers. You know what I mean? Honestly. So I'm like,
so anyway, I look at my Spotify. I listened to like,
I was like a hundred songs a month. It's barely anything.
And I'm like the way to really do this, it's fair is you take my 10 dollars,
right. And listen to a hundred songs. That's it?
Because I've got so many ways to listen to music that you listen,
you take that 10 songs and you give every buddy
10 cents, but that's not the way they do it. They're like we pay 0.0 0, 0 5, 6,
7 cents per stream. How could you know what you paid for stream? If you're,
if you're a distribution service, do you see what I'm saying?
I'm giving you $10 and you're going to take 30% off the top.
Like apple music used to do when you would buy a CD.
And then you take seven bucks and throw it towards the artists.
That would make sense to me. But they don't. They're like they're paying,
they're keeping all this cash or they're keeping it in a pile.
And then at the end of the day, they're just satiating. Like, you know,
Rhianna's hundred million dollar check she gets every year.
You know what I mean? I know a lot of artists who, who just,
they get checks for like $2 and 50 cents for a whole year on a record that
normally would sell like five or 6,000 copies.
But there's no ne like you have to basically be an idiot to buy a CD
nowadays, you know,
because it's a digital file that you ultimately could download
from Spotify under your phone and have it with you forever. Yeah. You know,
unless you don't have the internet, you know,
if you're in Alaska or in North Dakota, maybe you need to have a CD.
So, so few people are printing CDs.
Then it boils down to how much of an infrastructure do you need as an artist?
Who, who D how many people do you need to be representing you? What,
how does your stuff get out there? Doesn't it? Does it get, I mean,
especially with you guys, doesn't it just get out there because I mean,
I've just found out about you guys. Cause somebody tweeted it. I got like, oh,
who are these guys?
I'm not worried about us, man. I it's like the new bands coming out, new bands,
trying to break it. And that's what I'm worried about. Yeah. It's like,
we're fine. Um, but it bums me out because me.
For anybody in the business,
how much of an infrastructure do you need in this digital time? Well,
you just need someone to figure out how to.
I think, I think in a way it's like when we first started,
our first record deal was with a small label,
not far from where we are here and the deal was this, give us 12 songs,
pay for the recording yourself, we'll master it,
which is the final process of making a record that costs a couple hundred bucks.
And we'll send you 50 albums and we'll give you like 12% of the money we make.
That was it. And I'll end there. We're going to have a $500 marketing budget.
That was, that was the, that was the deal. You know what I mean?
So we basically, I mean, we made this record and paid for it ourselves.
And we went on tour. Um, with this agent named Ralph Carerra, booked us a tour.
And I kind of a mercenary agent. Who'd like booked. He booked the label,
I think, paid him a couple hundred bucks to book us this tour.
And it all kind of started steamrolling. You know what I mean?
But we had no infrastructure. We had no management, we had no agent,
we had nothing. We just kind of got an advanced started going.
And I think in a lot of ways, nothing has changed. Except for that.
When we got to the second level, you know, the set like it,
there was a couple thousand dollars there for us to make a record.
There was opening slots that, you know, touring was a little bit different than,
um,
but I think we've always kind of done it in a way that was pretty DIY and the
way it's the same way it has to function. Now,
the only difference is there's fewer record labels that are going to sit there
and give you $15,000 to make a record and maybe give you 10 grand to help you
buy a van. And that's the hardest step that's,
that's the threshold where things bands are having a hard time getting through,
you know, once you get through there, then it's like,
then you get to where we were for years, which is you're,
you're on a bigger label.
You're making records and no one's paying attention to you.
And the only reason why we ended up getting attention paid to us,
I think by Warner brothers was for our wreck,
our six record brothers. Um,
uh, it was a kind of a heavy time. I just turned 30. Dan just turned 30.
And you know, when you turn 30, it feels like you've gotten old.
You know what I mean? And like,
especially in the rock and roll business and we had this good, this record,
I thought was great. And I went into,
went to talk to Lee or Colin with our manager as well.
There was this, one of the guys heads of Warner brothers. And I, and I was like,
we're, we're like, we're the most sinked band on Warner brothers,
which is when you get a song on a TV show or movie or a commercial,
or that there's no other band for the last two years,
this had as many sinks as we have had, but we've never,
I've don't even know who works the radio department at Warner brothers.
And we've been on your label for like four or five years and Lee or basically
was like, oh, that, oh. He prioritized us like that week.
And for the first time was like, we're going to work on your band.
And when that happened, that's when the Lollapalooza that's when radio K rock,
everything changed. I mean,
it took us six albums and it took us all those sinks, all that.
I'm getting called sellouts all the time for awhile, for Gavin,
our songs calling, uh,
the same dudes that were at our first shows with their arms crossed.
It's a funny one. You still doing the same music stupid to say music.
I mean, it's, it's, I think that for different, I think it's,
I think that for this type of thing, it comes from that idea that like, uh,
maybe like, oh, that band, like there,
I liked the better when it was at my secret, my friends and I see her.
I don't want to share it with this dude. That's why, like,
it's dangerous to have your song in certain things.
Like if your song comes on in Walgreens, you better watch out, man.
Like that's a red flag.
Cause we've had opportunities to have our songs sent to like top 40 radio.
And, um, there was this thing where like, we,
if we won record of the year for lonely boy Warner brothers was going to service
that song to top 40. It would have never, probably been a hit.
But if we would have won that Grammy,
it could have our whole band up. I've seen it happen with lots of bands.
Like you just kind of, it just like you become like play school level.
Yeah. But do you really think that you guys would change? Just,
I think you've got it.
It's not that we would have changed, but the thing is,
is like you start accessing, like
you start accessing, you started, you started acquiring a fan base.
That's more fickle and maybe more annoying, you know what I mean?
It's like, okay, I got Chicago. Like I bet you as a Cubs fan,
like a Chicago Cubs fan in 2017 was like, this world series.
Yeah. Every wearing a Cubs hat. Do you know what I'm saying? Yes. And,
and I know exactly what that would feel like that there's probably the same
thing. It's like, if someone's going in there to get like,
someone's going to get shaving cream and this band that used to play it,
like the KA Casbar in San Diego is playing while they're checking out.
Like, they're probably like, this.
This. Listen, if you guys put out the same music that you put out in that time,
period, it wouldn't have mattered. Your music is, uh, it's.
It is it's you guys, you know? I mean,
it's not it's even though you've gone experimental and you've done different
styles of songs and some of them feel more bluesy,
some of them feel more, right. It's like, it's still black keys.
If you guys just did that, it wouldn't matter what you were on. Nobody gives a.